# ffmpeg-experiments
A collection of scripts and ffmpeg commands used to create video glitch art

These scripts contain various experiments done using videos with ffmpeg. I would classify all of these as experimental and in glitch art territory.  They are all batch scripts for windows, but the ffmpeg commands should be universal and adaptable to other OS. They are mostly designed to sit in a folder with the video files to be processed.

Ideally they will be arranged by process or intended outcome, but for now they are just all together. I’ll try to describe some of the broad concepts and intended outcomes.

Note on compression and codecs: most of these processes use H264 partially to save time and file size but also because it lends itself well to exploring and exploiting compression artifacts. That said, it is worth exploring the same processes using other compression and codecs, perhaps even going from one to another between processes. 

Blends - a series of scripts blend 2 videos together using different blend modes. You can use any videos, but most of the scripts are designed to take the same video and blend against itself with some time offset. These produce interesting results and there are some scripts here that run several processes or even a dozen or so. The idea being, drop the script in a folder of videos, run the script, walk away and come back later (overnight?) and review the results, keep your favorites, etc. Certain blend modes, like Divide and XOR, tend to produce really noisy results, which is great, but this drastically increases file size as noise cannot be easily compressed.

Bit Reduction/Decimate - Another idea that is used either by itself or mixed into other processes is reducing a video's bitrate. Going very low can produce some wonderfully glitched videos devoid of anything recognizable. Different compression will have different results as will the video’s initial resolution. This is really exploring the pixel as an aesthetic. Try it with HD video and with already low resolution video like from an old camera, phone, or webcam. Sometimes I use the phrase “deci” to indicate an extreme bitrate reduction happens in a process, but this is not the same as the actual ffmpeg process known as decimate. 

Crop Scale - Any fun technique is to crop a video to a much smaller size, sometimes the smallest allowed, then stretch back to a larger or original size. Similar to the Bit Reduction above this exploits and explores the pixel as well as nuances in various codecs. Often this technique will begin a series of processes to end up with some grainy, blurry video clouds.

Convert Raw - Here we take a RAW file and turn it into a video. The fun here is that you can use any type of file and create video from it. Granted that video will be just noise, but you can get subtle differences and possibly patterns, at least compared to just generating noise. Converting a file into RAW is fairly easy. You may even be able to do so just by changing the file extension, otherwise open in a hex editor and save as “.raw”. I think there is a script in here as well that will convert all files in a folder into a RAW copy. This is usually the start of a series of processes and it is worth exploring various compression and codecs. Note that the amount of data will translate into the duration, so for small file sizes (like a few or dozen MB) using smaller frame size and rate can squeeze out a few seconds of video. Usually that is more than enough to run a motion interpolation process.

Mint/Minty - Anything labeled mint or minty, and some processes that aren’t, indicate the use of motion interpolation (m-int). This is one of my favorite processes because it gives over some control to the machine. Sure it is usually predictable and reliable, but still you can achieve some great results here especially when using results from the above processes with lots of noise and compression artifacts. Full credit goes to Antonio Roberts from https://www.hellocatfood.com/motion-interpolation-for-glitch-aesthetics-using-ffmpeg-part-0/  which is where I discovered and copied the idea and some parameters. A few important points to know. Many of my minty processes use extreme slowdowns, usually anywhere from 6x to 50x or more. This makes it a rather slow and cpu intensive process. Also make sure to indicate the desired framerate otherwise the results will be choppy or have slower than desired rates. I often follow up a mint process using a time blend which is essentially motion blur.

4x4 - A simple yet effective process that takes the same video, flips it in 3 other orientations, then stacks them all together to create a hypnotic pattern. This is usually a process that happens near the end of a chain. A few notes, the end result will be a very large frame size. Often the process will include a second step that scales the results back to the original dimension or some HD dimension. This process commonly has issues where the videos meet creating visible seams, so another post processing step includes some subtle blurring,  time blending (motion blur), or something similar.

There are plenty of other processes included, but these are the general techniques. I’ll add more ideas and possibly group the files when I have time.

Enjoy!
